The Bethel Complex at Wal-Kill, New York is home to a printing operation that each year produces
in ships some 25 million pieces of Bible literature in over 175 languages.
But today's large-scale operation at Wal-Kill had small beginnings, beginning stretching
back 50 years.
The Bellenora said around in this early 60s sometime about looking at getting another farm.
So one Saturday morning I called brother Lars and I said brother Lars and you won't take a trip with me.
We only had brother and sister Dave Walker here at first and we had to feel the boys from Mountain Farm.
We wanted the farm for a hog house, a cow barn, the raised beef, the garden, milk house, all the things.
This was permanently going to be a farm close to New York.
This new property came to be known as Watchtower Farms.
The first residence building was completed in 1968.
In 1970 work began on a new building to house extensive printing facilities.
Printing began with the March 1st 1973 issue of the Watchtower magazine.
In 1979 design began on the multi-language electronic publishing system known as MEPS.
To date this computer system has contributed to the production of publications in over 700 languages.
Today with printing operations in full swing, Wallkill continues to function as a farm.
For five decades the complex at Wallkill has provided physical food for those working at Bethel.
And since 1973 it continues to produce spiritual nourishment for those yearning to hear the Bible's message.